( r

_. secunn
,‘ ‘A‘

DISPOSITION FORM

     

.‘clmou (mm

 

 

 

 

FILE’Ho. sunset
MI OPS 69 FOR Returned from USSR
T0 PROM DATE ' GOIMEHT NO. I
Assistant Chief of Staff, GE Commanding Officer 12 Dec 55 ‘
United States Arm, Europe. 532d Mil Intel Bn

APO 403, United States Arnv Am 46, us my
ATTN: Capt Livaditis

l. 0n 21 November 1955, returned POW Peter Von RUELING was screened at Camp
Piding, Bad Heichenhall, Germany. Von RUELING furnished information on the follow-
ing three persons whom he met while in SOVIET POW camps:

a. ANDERSONE Jghi'm : In 1951. SOURCE met a John Anderson, allegedly an
American cit zen, at mp ay ct, USSR, where they worlced in the same group.
Anderson was about 39 years Old, about 6' i” tall, of slender build, spoke fluent

_ Geman and is believed to have been born in Germany. He worked at the camp as an
electrician. Anderson told SOURCE that he had been stationed in Berlin in 1946,!“

' whie time he became drunk one niglt and went with a female companion to the Soviet
sector of Berlin. Here he was taken prisoner and subsequently sentenced to 25 years
In a conversation with Anderson, SOURCE heard him use the expression "we ﬂyers"
once while talking about a method of electrical construction, which led SOURCE to <
believe that Anderson may have been with the Air Corps. Anderson once told SOURCE
that he had been a Captain with the US Army in Berlin. SOURGE again heard about
Anderson in 1953 from a fellow prisoner who had worked with Anderson in the Tayshet
camp. This man stated that the American was still in the camp and was working in a
repair shop. Anderson l’eft SOURCE with a good impression. He did not speak with
any of the Soviets, was quiet and associated only with prisoners other than Russian.

b. WIIMEBS R 9 From lhy 1955 to Oct 1955’, SOURCE lived in
the prison at , ,~ r, w‘ a 34 Year old, 5' 7", light blond, stocky indi-
vidual who call d himself Robert Bobby Wilmsrs, allegeﬂy a British citizen, and,
who implied that he came hon British aristocracy. Wilmer: told SOURCE that he
was a British intelligence officer with the rank of let Irt, and that he had been
captured in 1949 111.811 Austrian village near the Yugoslavian border (British Zone).
He said that he was overcome by 3 men in civilian clothes, blind folded, and taken
in an automobile to the Soviets. He stated that he had been working with a spy net
which operated in Yugoslavia. Wilmers, who had been stationed somewhere near Graz,
Austria, was sentenced to 25 yea'rs. He stated to SOURCE that this sentence was la-
ter reduced by a Moscow court to 10 years. Wilmers expected to be released in Sep-
tember 1955. SOURCE stated that Wilmers was moved around in the prison and placed
in different cells with other prisoners, and was generally known throughout the
camp as a Soviet informer. In Oct 1955, the prison was reorganized at which time
the Russian prisoners were separated from prisoners of other nationalities. Dur-
ing this reorganization Wilmer-s disappeared and was not seen again by SOURCE.

“G UNCLASSIFIED

on /gR/q.o CIAL USE ONLY
BY CD USAINSCOM FOIPO
Auth Para 1-603 DOD 5200. lfgﬁqding dcda cannot be predel

ermi::J ® ,

I

roll , , . a ”4-97 I
DD mean 96 “m"“"°"“"'°‘"-"".'°“.!“‘$."N° 3 __ Li, A Lm «on

    
      

 

 

 

_«r.‘_5¢.{