/ SECRET

COPY

 

DECLASC: [:1 I'D vzcrilgooucﬁo Anny; NATIONAL NonWES

Aut on‘_ty [QM Q“; 93’ mu
7’15 NARA Date 4:.- 24%

JutlL-“Ann mm. .Mnun

 

 

 

orrmn «1w Tum SECWTAR’!’ OF MUFFINS}? i , Mgf 5.): \
Washington 25, 17.0. '1 ,

16 Septanber 1955
nmommui FOR m». WALTER ROBERTSON (DEPAmmTIOF STATE)

SUBJECT: Geneva Negotiations on Prisoners of War

1. In accordance with telephonic conversations with representatives of,
this office today, it is the position of the Department of Defence that the
Chinese Camuniata should account. to the U.S. for the ultimate fate of all
450 0.5. armed forces personnel.

2. The names of these individuals were l‘onveyed to the Department of
'Ttate and to Ambassador Johnson in July prior to his departure for Geneva.
A further copy is attached hereto.

3. It should be particularly noted that the"Doparbnent of Defense does
not and has never alleged that any or all of these individuals are new! alive
or that they were ever prisoners of war. Rather, it is our position that
they were either ccptured or killed in action under circumstances in which
the UN forces werc'unable to determine their fate. Equally, it is out position
that one or another of the elements of the Chinese Communist and/or North
Korean forces were in a position at the time of the incidents concerned to
determine their fate.

4. To cite an example, We haveme able to determine through the 4
interrogation of returned v.5. amed services personnel that sane of thoso‘
individuals were last seen engaged in combat and canpletely surrounded by
enemy forces. Whether the individual died during that combat. or was taken
prisoner, it is the obligation of the enany forces under the Geneva Conven-
tion to report upon his Into.

5. In other instances we have been able to determine from the
interrogation of returned prisoners oi‘ war that some (perhaps 33) of the
individuals listed in the group of 1.50 were in fact taken prisoner. For ‘
example, we have sworn testimony that a given individual was seriously
wounded, in "prison camp number 5" on a given date, and was removed by the
Chinese Communists during the night, after which he was never seen again.

6. Or. the basis of this evidence, we are also in a. position to insist
that an accounting for those individuals be rendered. The names of these
individuals are included in the list of 1.50.

7. There is also evidence based upon radar plots and intercepted voice
messages, as well as upon the recovery of casualties, that a small number.“
Air Force crews whose missions involved flights over the Sea of Jopnn during
the Korean War were shot down by aircraft based in the Soviet For Feat, some

SECRET